Lab 2: After exploring the Post45 datasheet, I became interested in authors, imprints, and genres. I tried to create a pivot table, but it was hard to read the date on the chart because there were thousands of values. Therefore, I approached this assignment as if I was examining post-WWII author genres and decided to look at a small group of authors between 1946 and 1950. I chose this period for historical reasoning; this would be the post-WWII era, and I wondered how many authors in the four years after WWII published in specific genres. I knew that this data was representative of the information collected and was in no way comprehensive. However, my specific chart on (prolific authors 1946-1950) allowed a trend to appear. While the average author published in approximately 2-5 different genres, some outliers published in 34 genres, such as Charles Dickens, a prolific author, and Joseph Conrad, who published in 43 different genres. Understanding this data allowed me to ask further questions that I could not answer: were some of the genre crossover categories? How were these books defined in that genre? Perhaps, a book listed as a mystery could count as a thriller or adventure as a fantasy. I also noticed that within the Post45 dataset, after 1950 and moving into the 1960s, authors began publishing in more genres. Some authors published in as many as 125 categories, which reinforced my previous question related to cross-categorization. 

The Data Feminism chapter 5 reading for this week aligned with my experience by highlighting discrepancies in data and how they are useful. While I would like to emphatically clean my small sample data and force those publishings into a single category, it would sterilize my data and not allow for pluralism. Much like the example of Phyllis Bowie, who pursued homeownership but was on the verge of eviction after the city broke a lease. How is she and situations like hers represented in the visualization? The quantitative breakdown would show that this area of San Francisco has many evictions. However, the various types of evictions allow for a richer and fuller picture of how and why someone was evicted (qualitative) vs. the number of evictions in a region (quantitative). In tandem, this data works to demonstrate that everyone did not default on payments but was affected by larger political structures. I realized that data is what you make it or is what you tell it to be. If I fail to allow pluralism to be shown in data or restrict variations, the data will reveal that process.
A great example was last week’s reading in Data Feminism Ch 4. Briefly, in the example of “Au Gratin potatoes,” researchers wanted the information but there were many variations for that dish that made their data messy. If the variations were cleaned, it would have normalized all the variants into one standardized spelling. Thus, Python software could solve this by cleaning up the data and making corrections, but they found out that the process revealed “messiness” that they had not yet considered. That “messiness” should be used to embrace pluralism and document the effects of your data while also resisting it through critical and creative means. Non-standardized events or entries allow for more profound questions and patterns to appear. Those inconsistencies are the qualitative elements that make data insightful. 

Link to Post45 data tables: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1CUb_MlK86k3yKjgkdSEBCwBrK8wnh9BuCFXS0xakjlU/edit?usp=sharing
